README.md, before:

# Functional Programming Node App Weather v2

Hola, acá les comparto este repo, sin dar muchas vueltas es una app de clima que utilicé para practicar conceptos de programación funcional.

Es una app inspirada en un ejemplo de el curso: [Node de cero a experto](https://www.udemy.com/course/node-de-cero-a-experto/) de Fernando Herrera. El proyecto original del curso estaba hecho con el paradigma de OOP (orientado a objetos), el código de este repo está todo hecho bajo el paradigma de FP (programación funcional).

En este caso utilicé un patrón de composición asíncrona `composeAsync()` para secuenciar los distintos pasos de la app.

## Requirements

-   Node 15.3.0 or higher

## Installation guide

1. **Clone** repo and go to the project folder

    ```bash
    	via ssh

    	$ git clone git@github.com:aalvarezto/node-app-weather-v2.git
    	$ cd node-app-weather-v2

    	via https

    	$ git clone https://github.com/aalvarezto/node-app-weather-v2.git
    	$ cd node-app-weather-v2
    ```

2. **Install** dependencies

    ```bash
    	$ npm install

    	or

    	$ yarn
    ```

3. **Create** `.env` file

    ```bash
    	$ touch .env
    ```

4. Create an account for **MapBox** ([_link here_](https://www.mapbox.com)) **OpenWeather** ([_link here_](https://openweathermap.org)), read the instructions from the documentation and and create your own api keys for both services.

5. Inside the `.env` paste your api keys for the **MapBox** and **OpenWeather** services.

    ```
    	MAPBOX_KEY=YOUR_API_MAPBOX_KEY
    	OPENWEATHER_KEY=YOUR_OPENWEATHER_API_KEY
    ```

6. Run the **app** with:

    ```bash
    	$ node index.js

    	or

    	$ npm run start

    	or

    	$ yarn start
    ```

7. Have fun 😁

## Links and resources

-   [Node de cero a experto](https://www.udemy.com/course/node-de-cero-a-experto/)
-   [MapBox](https://www.mapbox.com)
-   [OpenWeather](https://openweathermap.org)
-   [Inquirer](https://www.npmjs.com/package/inquirer)
-   [Ora](https://https://www.npmjs.com/package/ora)

Commit message:

:wrench::sparkles: adds new quick script to README.md / adds error messages for api keys

README.md, after:

# Functional Programming Node App Weather v2

Hola, acá les comparto este repo, sin dar muchas vueltas es una app de clima que utilicé para practicar conceptos de programación funcional.

Es una app inspirada en un ejemplo de el curso: [Node de cero a experto](https://www.udemy.com/course/node-de-cero-a-experto/) de Fernando Herrera. El proyecto original del curso estaba hecho con el paradigma de OOP (orientado a objetos), el código de este repo está todo hecho bajo el paradigma de FP (programación funcional).

En este caso utilicé un patrón de composición asíncrona `composeAsync()` para secuenciar los distintos pasos de la app.

## Requirements

-   Node 15.3.0 or higher

## Installation guide

0. **Quick Script (bash)**

    ### After this script go to **step **4 and place your api keys in the `.env` file.

    ```bash
    	git clone https://github.com/aalvarezto/node-app-weather-v2.git
    	cd node-app-weather-v2
    	echo $'MAPBOX_KEY=\nOPENWEATHER_KEY=' > .env
    	npm install
    	code .

    ```

1. **Clone** repo and go to the project folder

    ```bash
    	via ssh

    	$ git clone git@github.com:aalvarezto/node-app-weather-v2.git
    	$ cd node-app-weather-v2

    	via https

    	$ git clone https://github.com/aalvarezto/node-app-weather-v2.git
    	$ cd node-app-weather-v2
    ```

2. **Install** dependencies

    ```bash
    	$ npm install

    	or

    	$ yarn
    ```

3. **Create** `.env` file

    ```bash
    	$ touch .env
    ```

4. Create an account for **MapBox** ([_link here_](https://www.mapbox.com)) **OpenWeather** ([_link here_](https://openweathermap.org)), read the instructions from the documentation and and create your own api keys for both services.

5. Inside the `.env` file paste your api keys for the **MapBox** and **OpenWeather** services.

    ```
    	MAPBOX_KEY=YOUR_API_MAPBOX_KEY
    	OPENWEATHER_KEY=YOUR_OPENWEATHER_API_KEY
    ```

6. Run the **app** with:

    ```bash
    	$ node index.js

    	or

    	$ npm run start

    	or

    	$ yarn start
    ```

7. Have fun 😁

## Links and resources

-   [Node de cero a experto](https://www.udemy.com/course/node-de-cero-a-experto/)
-   [MapBox](https://www.mapbox.com)
-   [OpenWeather](https://openweathermap.org)
-   [Inquirer](https://www.npmjs.com/package/inquirer)
-   [Ora](https://https://www.npmjs.com/package/ora)
